Lhstat collects and outputs some properties of a running Linux. It
also runs visual (osd) and audio (festival) warnings for low battery
status.

This is version 0.5.3, Mon Nov 10 18:19:57 GMT 2008

Writing this was a way to learn some Lisp basics for the first time,
and to solve the problem of monitoring some properties of my linux
laptops. I use it in the window manager Awesome v2.3.4, but, given its
text output, it shouldn't be too hard to reuse it in other window
managers, or textual environments. I've been using it on daily basis
for months on couple of different laptops (dual core and Pentium M). 

It is Inspired by Dobrica Pavlinusic's code dwm-status.pl
(http://svn.rot13.org/index.cgi/scripts/view/trunk/dwm-status.pl)
which performs a very similar thing, written in Perl.

It happened on few occasions that a laptop would run out of battery
power while i was in the house, but not close to it to see the power
light blinking. Adding audio and visual warning features makes it less
likely to miss the low battery warnings.

Here's how the output of lhstat looks like:

"55C (64) | 0.14 (0.19) | 14:21 Sun 2 Nov | ^210k D       | ^154k (wlan0) 567k  | 2h:27m (Dis) 99%"

It shows:

1. CPU temperature, average for multicore

   format: temp (max temp)

2. system load

   format: load (max load) 

3. time date

4. single storage device

   format: read kB D write kB

5. single network interface
   
   format: transmit kB (network interface name) receive kB

6. battery

   format: time left to end of status (battery status) percentage full

   example of time to full discharge:          2h:26m (Dis) 98%  
   example of calculating status:      Calibrating... (Ful) 97%
   example of time to full charge:             0h:39m (Cha) 90%

INSTALL and USE: 

if you check it out from git directly to /usr/local/sbin/lhstat (or
modify /etc/init.d/lhstat file to reflect your location) and make sure
your system has clisp and detachtty (debian packages exists), you can
now start/stop/restart it daemonized, using the provided init
script. Log file will be at /var/log/lhstat.log. You can attach to the
lhstat process with attachtty. For low battery warnings install the
following: for on-screen visual osd_cat (xosd-bin in Debian), for
audio festival (festival + festvox voice in Debian). I develop and
test on Debian unstable, HP 8510 and Thinkpad X31, usually with the
latest (or close to it), kernels.

TODO: 

- debian package

- calculation of storage and network stats needs checking

- debuging mode

- command line interface needs to be added so that parameters like
  storage device, network device, debuging mode, display mode of
  various components, sleep time, can be selected. and so that version
  and help can be displayed.

- compile the code and run it compiled

- lisp package

- add licence

- check for existence of osd_cat and festival and log if either
  missing

- add version string and print it at the start, so that log contains a
  stamp with the running version

- tests

- config file, to hold values like percentage threshold for displaying
  low battery warnings, font in use by osd_cat

- check and issue warning for minimal Linux kernel version, since
  lhstat depends on /sys and /proc.

Toni Prug, tony@irational.org

